PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Objective: The objective of this project is to create a digitalized report management system that allows doctors and patients to connect online with digitalized sharing and store medical data of patients. The system aims to improve patient care and streamline communication between doctors and patients.




Features:

Doctor functionalities:
View Personal Details: Doctors can view their basic information, such as name, address, and contact details.
View patient list: The doctor can view a list of all their patients along with their basic information and detailed information such as medical history, current medication , and visual analysis of patients health data 
Share patient details: The doctor can share patient information with other doctors, such as referrals or consultations.
Appointments: The doctor can schedule appointments with patients and view upcoming appointments on their calendar.
Prescribe medications: Based on a patient's symptoms, the doctor can suggest appropriate medications and also he can update the disease and prescribe accordingly.



Patient functionalities:
View personal details: Patients can view their basic information, such as name, address, and contact details.
View medical details: Patients can view their medical history, current medication, and Health rate.
View schedule appointments: Patients can view their scheduled appointments with the doctor.
Health analysis using graphs: Patients can view graphical representations of their health data, such as blood pressure, cholesterol , BMI, RBC, and WBC
Implementation: The program is implemented using Python programming language, and list data structure is used to store the data of patients and doctors. The data is stored in CSV format, which can be easily accessed and updated by the doctor. The program has also incorporate basic user interface for ease of use.
Overall, this project will help doctors and patients to connect more easily, and will improve the quality of patient care by providing more accurate and timely information to doctors virtually




Future Scope:
We are planning to add new features such as
Patient will be able to download pdf file of his data history and can share with the doctor that are not available in our application.
Instead of csv we can use DBMS for real life table of doctor and patient.
We can authenticate tables and files
Regional language support: System will allow users to write in their regional language, making it more accessible to non-English speaking users.
Use of some ML models to predict the accuracy of  data.
